MIT Technology Review – 10 Breakthrough Technologies – 2016
(https://www.technologyreview.com/lists/technologies/2016/)

 

Immune Engineering

Genetically engineered immune cells are saving the lives of cancer patients. That may be just the start.



Precise Gene Editing in Plants

CRISPR offers an easy, exact way to alter genes to create traits such as disease resistance and drought tolerance.



Conversational Interfaces

Powerful speech technology from China’s leading Internet company makes it much easier to use a smartphone.



Reusable Rockets

Rockets typically are destroyed on their maiden voyage. But now they can make an upright landing and be refueled for another trip, setting the stage for a new era in spaceflight.



Robots That Teach Each Other

What if robots could figure out more things on their own and share that knowledge among themselves?



  DNA App Store

An online store for information about your genes will make it cheap and easy to learn more about your health risks and predispositions.



SolarCity’s Gigafactory

A $750 million solar facility in Buffalo will produce a gigawatt of high-efficiency solar panels per year and make the technology far more attractive to homeowners.



Slack

A service built for the era of mobile phones and short text messages is changing the workplace.



Tesla Autopilot

The electric-vehicle maker sent its cars a software update that suddenly made autonomous driving a reality.



Power from the Air

Internet devices powered by Wi-Fi and other telecommunications signals will make small computers and sensors more pervasive.



The Evolution of the Web – Browsers and Technologies – The Growth of the Internet (http://evolutionofweb.appspot.com/)

The web today is a growing universe of interlinked web pages and web apps, teeming with videos, photos and interactive content. What the average user doesn’t see is the interplay of web technologies and browsers that makes all this possible.

Over time, web technologies have evolved to give web developers the ability to create new generations of useful and immersive web experiences. Today’s web is a result of the ongoing efforts of an open web community that helps define these web technologies, like HTML5, CSS3 and WebGL, and ensure that they’re supported in all web browsers.

evolutionThe colour bands in this visualisation represent the interaction between web technologies and browsers, which brings to life the many powerful web apps that we use daily.

 

BCS: The Chartered Institute for ITThe Chartered Institute for IT (BCS)
(http://www.bcs.org/)

BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT champions the global IT profession and the interests of individuals engaged in that profession for the benefit of all.

IET logoThe Institution of Engineering and Technology – The IET
(http://www.theiet.org/)

The IET is one of the world’s largest engineering institutions with Over 167,000 members in 127 countries. It is also the most multidisciplinary – to reflect the increasingly diverse nature of engineering in the 21st century.

The IET is working to engineer a better world by inspiring, informing and influencing our members, engineers and technicians, and all those who are touched by, or touch, the work of engineers.

Sue Brandreth, May 2017

 

 